---
title: 2018 - A recap
date: '2018-12-30'
description: "A recap of the year 2018. What went well, what didn't, and how I'm planning the next year."
keywords: ['2018', 'habits', 'resolutions']
category: 'life'
---

This year has had its fair share of ups and downs. There are certain areas where I think I could have done better which I resolve to improve on in the coming year. However, there were events that make this year a perfect one which makes me wonder if I'm being too hard on myself.

## Personal

To start on the bright side, I have gained a lot of interpersonal skills while working as an Engineer manager at Axelerant. This has helped form a bond with my colleagues and has led me to become a lot more empathetic. As an introvert, I feel there is still a long way for me to go to become a better engineering manager.

The best day of the year was when my daughter, _Baheej_ was born. She is the apple of my eye. This event has led me to become a lot more conscious about the decisions I take, especially around finances. Although I never was a spendthrift, I'm, however, a little more serious about how I spend and invest my time and money now.

Health is something I feel I've been taking for granted for God knows how long and it has taken a toll on me. In 2018 I've had a tendinitis surgery in my left hand due to the poor ergonomics of my laptop keyboard and how I was using it. I corrected it by moving the laptop from my lap to a table with an external monitor, keyboard and a mouse. This has helped me a lot and my hands and back are thankful for it.

Apart from that, I've been dealing with a lot of anxiety this whole year and I have become a lot more pessimistic because of it. This has been weighing on my health and my relationship. I'm planning to address it with habits that I'm going to form over 2018.

## Work

This year hasn't been great when it comes to technical achievements or learnings. Being mostly tied up at work and at home I couldn't spend significant time on side projects or learning new things. I attribute this too poor time management which is again something I want to improve in the coming year.

The only to meaningful side projects I worked on this year were refactoring [Kashmir](https://github.com/skippednote/kashmirnews-be) [News](https://github.com/skippednote/kashmirnews-fe) and [Netlify Drupal 8](https://github.com/skippednote/netlify-d8) module which I have been using a lot myself.

I have scrapped the previous iteration of this blog with a new one. I plan to do this less often and write more not just about technical topics but whatever is interesting to me and makes sense on this blog.

## Habits

I'm using the word habits here because I want to all to continue over the coming years and become a part of who I am.

- Take care of my health. cycling more often at least 4 days a week.
- Write in my personal journal every day to become more conscientious about what I'm doing and how my time is being spent.
- To be financially more stable so that I can take risks on passion projects.
- Invest time in technology, books, and courses that I plan to finish and not leave half-way through.
- Build a new Drupal Kashmir website and collaborate with more people to start a local meet-up.
- Consistently share content on this blog. I'm thinking weekly useful links, TILs, and blogs like this.

That's a wrap on the overview of how this year was for me and how I plan to challenge myself next year.

Happy holidays and hope you have great 2019.
