---
title: Frunt
layout: post
categories: javascript
---

Frunt, a CLI tool, based on Grunt and Grunt plugins, helps you accomplish multiple tasks with a single command. Frunt is built upon Grunt 0.4.0 and can be easily extended to add further functionality.

Frunt is currently in alpha stage and will be improved with bugfixes and new features in future releases. Right now its doing all the tasks that I had in mind when I started building it. I appreciate pull-requests if you are game to help me build it into a better tool.

You can clone, fork, submit a pull or file a bug report on [Frunt's repository on Github](https://github.com/skippednote/Frunt/).

## Getting Started

### Installing Dependencies
Frunt is dependent upon Grunt which in turn is dependent on Node.js. We will start by installing Node.js followed by Grunt and then setting up Frunt.

You can either download the source from [Node.js's site](http://nodejs.org/ ) or simply install it from brew, which I prefer myself.

Installing brew

~~~
$ ruby -e "$(curl -fsSL https://raw.github.com/mxcl/homebrew/go)"
~~~

Installing Node.js

~~~
$ brew install node
~~~

Incase you already have previous version of Grunt installed you will have to uninstall it. You might need to use `sudo` on OSX, *nix, BSD, etc to run the command as Adminstrator. NPM (Node Package Manager) comes installed with Node.js and we will use it to install grunt-cli. We will install grunt-cli globally so we can run it from anywhere.

Uninstalling grunt

~~~
$ npm uninstall -g grunt
~~~

Installing grunt-cli

~~~
$ npm install -g grunt-cli
~~~


## Setting-up Frunt
Now that we have all the dependencies installed, we can setup Frunt.

To get started clone Frunt into your project

~~~
$ cd  ~/you_project/
$ git clone https://github.com/skippednote/Frunt/
~~~

We will have two Frunt files in our project: `Gruntfile.js` and `Package.json`. All the tasks are defined in `Gruntfile.js` which are linked to the modules that do all the heavy pulling. The `Package.json` contains the metadata about the project and has all the path, variables and, devDependencies defined in it.

To install all the modules Frunt is dependent upon, we will enter the following in the terminal:

~~~
$ npm install
~~~

This will install all the dependencies listed within the `Package.json`.

We are now ready to use Frunt.


## Usage

Frunt right now can perform the following tasks:

- Compass compile
- Concatenate file
- UglifyJS
- Compress Images with support for Progressive JPEGS
- Watch and Run tasks on change

### Compass

Frunt is capable of compiling compass projects that have  already been setup. All the compass options are specified within the `Gruntfile.js` and can be changed as per ones needs. Right now the paths in the `Gruntfile.js` are variables linked from `Package.json`. I'm planning to remove all hardcoded values from `Gruntfile.js` so that all the changes can be done from `Package.json`. The `Package.json` in future can be build using task runner(grunt-init).

Compass Compile can be run individually or with the other Frunt tasks as well. To compile compass project run:

~~~
$ grunt compass
~~~

### Concatenate

Frunt can concatenate multiple files. Right now I'm using it to concatenate javascript files only, as compass is compiling and concatenating CSS. You can change the paths in the `Package.json` to change the directory or type of files you want to concatenate. To concatenate files from your project run:

~~~
$ grunt concat
~~~

### UglifyJS

Frunt uses the grunt-contrib-uglify based on Marijn Haverbeke's UglifyJS to compress, parse and mangle javascript. Here the task takes the concatenated javascript file and Uglifys it.

~~~
$ grunt uglify
~~~

### Compress Images

I have added ImageMin to Frunt that optimizes and compresses PNG and JPEG images. This is one of the most essential tools of Frunt for me. Right now there are two options for the task hard coded in the `Gruntfile.js`:

1. optimizationLevel: To select the level of optimization. The values for optimization start from 0 to 7.
2. progressive: For lossless conversion to progressive. These are boolean values and have been set to `true` by default.

~~~
$ grunt imagemin
~~~


### Watch

Watch runs specified tasks when any change in a given directory takes place. We can specify the path of the directory in the `Gruntfile.js` that we want to watch. Watch has two options: one to set the directory to watch and the other one for the tasks that would run when change take place in the selected directory.

~~~
$ grunt watch
~~~

### Grunt

We can run all these task together with a single command using Grunt's default task. `compass`, `imagemin`, `concat` and, `uglify` have been added to the `watch` task for now.

~~~
$ grunt
~~~

This will run all the four task one by one, first `compass` then `imagemin` followed by `concat` and at last `uglify`.

## Contributing

You can help in taking this project further by submitting a pull-request or filing bug reports. You can do this from the [repository of the project on GitHub](https://github.com/skippednote/Frunt/).

Right now I have many new feature in the pipeline and I plan to release them in the coming months. If you have any idea that might help improve the project or need help in setting up, mention me on [Twitter](http://www.twitter.com/skippednote) and I'll be more than happy to get back to you.
